---
layout: post
title:  "Genuine excuse"
date:   2007-07-26 12:35:00
categories:
 - Information
 - Personal
 - Distractions
---

Now that I'm doing real paid work I have less time to even think of things I
might like to write in my blog. Here I am anyway though, blogging in my lunch
break.

As far as work goes I'm still slogging away on the same project. Battling with
conflicting interests and bloody politics… The project would be a doddle if we
weren't all so infuriatingly human about everything, but alas I don't see any
progress being made on that front for a long time. As I fear is the case with
all knowledge management work, the project involves simplifying and making
understandable and usable the complexity that is society (society in what ever
form you happen to be looking at).

The first random thing I'd like to write about is probably another item in a
growing catalogue of evidence that I'm obsessed with everything Google. For a
while now I've been using their [mapping tool](http://maps.google.co.uk/)
(cunningly named Google Maps) to find my way about and for all those other
occasions one needs to reference a map. Obviously one of the big uses is
getting directions from one place to another. One aspect of which annoys me
across all mapping tools is the inability to customise your route… when you
know what they have suggested is just plain wrong! Well Google have done it
again, now you just click on the route and drag it to another road, it will
recalculate the route for it.

Along similar lines of "things you've always wanted", I've started thinking
about how to make my own piece of writing software. You might shout angrily
that it is a silly idea because so many already exist… and you're right.
Unfortunately none of them really suit the way I like to write. I want to be
able to separate out the 'content' I produce from the document and from any
kind of presentation. I want a semantic writing tool. I'll write more about it
in time, as my ideas come together.
