---
layout: post
title:  "Freeing Information"
date:   2007-02-07 17:12
categories:
 - information
 - personal
 - blog
---

I'd like to share some thoughts I've had on restricting access to information
(commonly referred to as Intellectual Property).

The term Intellectual Property (IP) describes well what I'm talking about, that
being the concept that the same rights which apply to your material goods (e.g.
your computer) can be extended to your thoughts and ideas. If I've got my
history right IP came about as our products became more complicated… more
information was squeezed into products to make them faster, more efficient, et
cetera. This increasing lead to information becoming the valuable component of
a product, rather than the raw materials. The use of IP has accelerated in
recent decades as companies rush to protect their valuable property –
[IBM](http://www.ibm.com/us/) being a prime example, [currently
holding](http://www.ibm.com/ibm/licensing/patents/portfolio.shtml) in excess of
40,000 patents.

Someone who has come up with a great idea is quite right to want to some
recognition for it (and by recognition I mean money), after all they need to
put bread on the table and so forth, however, cracks in this principle start to
appear as the 'people' with the IP rights are more frequently corporations, who
have an insatiable hunger for bread. (Corporations, unlike your normal crack
pot inventor, are out to extract every penny from anything they can get their
hands on.)

IP is now deeply ingrained in society, it surrounds, wraps up and protects
everything from copying or reuse. Protection coming in the form of law suits
and counter-suits, with corporations vehemently attacking any threat to their
ownership of a piece of knowledge.

The practice of considering knowledge on the same level as material goods is
flawed, unlike material goods once 'created' a piece of information can be
replicated infinitely without real cost. But once you've created this piece of
information, you want your reward, you want to be paid. So you charge for
people to use this information (or to buy a product which manifests it), enough
to cover your costs, you also need to ensure your future is safe so you charge
a little bit extra to help you develop 'the next' piece of information. But
you're a corporation so 'costs' are insatiable (your employees always want to
be paid more, your share holders always want larger returns) and you strike
upon the idea of charging people by how much they value a product.

Now consider the example of pharmecutical companies that develop 'life-saving'
drugs, how do you value a life? This is what they do everyday, and they are
pricing some people out of the market!

These few lines aren't a very good expression of what I'm thinking and if I
thought about it I would probably realise I have greatly misrepresented the
issue. I've written [a few more
words](http://people.bath.ac.uk/en3cl/design/freeing_design/) more specifically
in relation to the information in the design process as part of my university
work.
