---
layout: post
title:  "Value in information or value in thought?"
date:   2008-06-25 11:58:00
categories:
 - information
 - blog
---

Steve Culley asked (by email) for my views on an article in the Guardian
titled, I Google, therefore I am losing the ability to think. A related
article, Hits and misses, was contributed by Mansur Darlington.

Personally, my memory for simple facts has been degrading and that has been
noted by my friends and family… I don't think I'm yet at a point where I can
put that down to my age. I can, however, still enjoy losing myself in a book,
or following an article or report through its arguments. I don't agree that the
consequences of Google include the degradation of our ability to think or
really pose some fundamental threat to our intelligence.

I've always thought one of the most fundamental tools humans possess is
extelligence. Is the WWW as an information carrier fundamentally different to
the older methods: books, scrolls, tablets, stele and cave walls? I would say
it has just become easier to rely on – more accessible.

The ability to assess the validity and bias of sources, interpret arguments and
construct concepts is separate to that. The WWW (and current search technology)
make it harder by increasing the potential sources by several magnitudes. I
think that just argues for better teaching of soft skills. At no point in my
education have I been instructed on how to search any form of information, I
have never been taught how to classify, I have never been taught the importance
of providing a chain of references. I think it is usually assumed that the
individual should pick this up in the course of their education… I think most
people do, but many do not. The greater the field of information to draw on the
more crucial these skills become.
