---
layout: post
title:  "An obsession with naming"
date:   2008-02-18 12:42
categories:
 - information
 - social
 - blog
---

Why do people insist on naming everything? We seem to have an underlying need
to give things unique names. We do this even for things which are not being
explicitly marketed, are only used within one context and do not have to
compete with other things providing the same function (Although I have just
stated quite a few constraints on what I am talking about there are still quite
a lot of things covered by it). Let me clarify what I am complaining about with
an example:

I just ran a cropper of this problem when trying to request some changes be
made to my university's central address book. The maintainer seemed quite
confused by my referring to it as "the university address book"… apparently I
should have known to call it Person Finder. Silly me! One email simply reads:

    It's called Person Finder.

What is wrong with "Address book", that is surely what it *is* to most people?
Perhaps I am different, do most people think in terms of names or what
something actually does or is? Other than being memorable, what is the point,
and if that is the only point does it really help us remember or communicate
about a particular thing?

The two extremes of this might results in my being called "vegetarian engineer
from Guisborough" or, on the other hand, [Person 728692](http://www.bath.ac.uk/person/728692). Although many of our
names did once reflect key identifying traits, we just got lazy or sentimental
when it came to changing them… I should really be living in a loft-house below
a cliff face. A person is something which must clearly be named in a global
context which lends more weight to a numbering system…and I do not think I am
something which already has a widely accepted name nor can I be easily and
intuitive described! We are all different things to different people after all.
There are clearly circumstances where naming is the most desirable solution but
I feel we take it too far!

This post started off which a clear intention to rant about something very
specific… it turned into just a amble with a particularly aggressive tone.
