---
layout: post
title:  "Open Data consultations – Answers to the Data Policy Consultation"
date:   2011-10-25 09:55
categories: [information, social, blog]
---

I am currently responding to 2 Government public consultations, the [Data
Policy Consultation](http://discuss.bis.gov.uk/pdc/) on the form and role of
the Public Data Corporation and the [Making Open Data
Real](http://data.gov.uk/opendataconsultation) consultation on the "culture of
openness and transparency in our public services". In this post I copy my
answers to Chapter 4 of the consultation document, on charging for information,
this was the section I felt most able to answer. I omit my answers to the other
questions as I either skipped them or only gave cursory answers. The answers
below are not particularly well considered either, but it felt better to
contribute than to sit back and hope for the best.

I am not entirely convinced by the data utility argument which I support in my
answer to question 1, however, there is nothing that gets my ire up more than
when people limit the spectrum of acceptable opinion with hand wavy arguments
(Section 4.17). Not to mention the hypocrisy of doing so whilst at the same
time suffixing each question with "Please provide evidence to support your
answer where possible."

Charging for Public Data Corporation information
------------------------------------------------

**1. How do you think Government should best balance its objectives around
increasing access to data and providing more freely available data for re-use
year on year within the constraints of affordability? Please provide evidence
to support your answer where possible.**

The Government and its organisations should provide services for society, the
assumption that the "constituent parts" targeted for absorption into the PDC
should act as businesses, requiring "sustainable business model[s]" is a
subversion of their place and role in society. To go further down that route
rather than retreat from it is a mistake.

The remit of the constituent parts should be restricted to providing the
services necessary for the country to operate effectively, and such services
should be funded from the budgets of the organs of Government that use them
(ultimately the tax payer). Those service should then be provided at marginal
cost to any non-Governmental users. Although there is an obvious advantage to
the tax payer in having the services subsidised by non-Governmental users such
a funding device is regressive, in that it restricts the services to those who
can afford the charges. Outstanding issues of affordability should be
reconsidered in terms of the net benefit to Society of those services being
made available.

The consultation describes this position as the "'data utility' pricing model"
(S. 4.17) and without evidence or discussion deems it "currently unaffordable"
and therefore not for discussion. Further it spuriously argues that a "lack of
investment" would result in degraded quality and accessibility of the data,
despite said level investment being entirely at the Government's discretion,
and the remit for the production of value-added services also being at its
discretion. By discounting a model which they acknowledge without more detailed
consideration the authors make their bias clear.

**2. Are there particular datasets or information that you believe would create
particular economic or social benefits if they were available free for use and
re-use? Who would these benefit and how? Please provide evidence to support
your answer where possible.**

The 2008 "Models of Public Sector Information Provision via Trading Funds"
report by Newbery, Bently and Pollock commissioned by the last Government found
that changing two OS product categories to a marginal cost regime would result
in a net benefit to Society of £168m, for a cost to Government of £30m. Because
of the lack of category breakdowns provided to the authors of the report, it is
not possible to analyse which of the specific products covered by those
categories were produced for use by Government and which are primarily consumed
by other users. This report seems like a perfect starting point for identifying
such datasets.

**3. What do you think the impacts of the three options would be for you and/or
other groups outlined above? Please provide evidence to support your answer
where possible.**

1. The status quo already includes some commitment to continue to open up more
sources of data, so as there is no perceived change it is difficult to talk
about impacts. If the commitments are honoured and carried out in the true
spirit of opening up useful data to the public then it would have an impact,
but it would seem likely to be less than the other 2 options.

2. Cost is an absolute barrier to any use by me and most community
organisations I have involvement with and therefore this option would continue
to exclude me from data use. Section 4.24 seems to be an arbitrary addition to
this option and as explained in my answer to question 4 would naturally lead to
a less fair competition with existing providers and act as a barrier to
innovation and start-ups.

3. The feature limited freemium options seems to be already tacitly used by
organisations such as the OS, who give away some low detail data sets such as
StreetView but charge for more detailed ones, which has made it useful to a
limited extent for community mapping but seems to have been carried out without
a real consideration of what would be off value to society. Limiting within
certain geographical bounds would seem like a good approach to providing useful
data to community and local interest groups whilst persuading commercial users
to pay for nationwide access. On a similar theme, a limit based on non-profit
usage would provide for mine and many other community use cases whilst still
satisfying the Governments need to 'encourage' private investment.

**4. A further variation of any of the options could be to encourage PDC and
its constituent parts to make better use of the flexibility to develop
commercial data products and services outside of their public task. What do you
think the impacts of this might be?**

Unless all the public task data were released for free (re)use such a variation
would see the PDC compete unfairly with private organisations, and would likely
stifle innovation. If one assumes they would act like a conventional commercial
entity when developing such products they would have the ability to erect
barriers to entry by weakening or obfuscating the public task data. This
variation would run counter to the "stimulat[ion of] the development of an
information market".

It is worrying that this particular 'issue' is being raised so prominently
within the consultation.

**5. Are there any alternative options that might balance Government's
objectives which are not covered here? Please provide details and evidence to
support your response where possible.**

One such alternative consideration is the impact free access will have if
combined with efforts to encourage volunteer and commercial contribution to the
services. A prime example is the role the OpenStreetMap project plays in
providing up to date information about the condition and route of rights of
way; something which is currently not maintained with any degree of consistency
or appropriate quality by either local councils or the Ordnance Survey.
